[[Chapter 1 - Intro ]]

Steam filled the warehouse as the motors from the machine spun wildly. If you stand close enough, the ground beneath you tremors as the great hydraulics heave into the air and slam back into the machine. Metal scraping against metal, whispering. The air around us implodes from the force of its lumbered breath. Looking up, it reaches into an infinite ceiling, one you cannot see. Unsure if it ever has an end, my only comfort comes from the sounds of clattering pipes growing more and more distant. It stretches out for miles, growing each day. I have seen it crush people between its uncaring fingers.

This has replaced the birdsong, the talking between us, the sound of skin. Staring into the infinity of The Machine feels like looking into a pulsing, twitching heart- the organ of the warehouse, and everything that we work towards. The Machine is the heart and we are its blood; we move so that those above can do more. They are allowed to do more than live. 

The news has been playing for over two thousand days, it never stops. Whispering underneath the howling machines, but still we are told nothing. It repeats the same message, again and again. We are motivated by their words to help repair the country, so that the lights stay on for another day and future generations may live happily, and safely. We are motivated by fear. Hundreds of faceless lives walk past as their hands burn red from the machine's glowing body. 

I am surrounded by faces blurred by foggy visors, their movements almost robotic. I can feel the ache in their arms and chest as sparks fly in front of them, tirelessly working. They remove the masks from their heads, yet I cannot see their faces. A line is formed outside of a narrow door with an orange light above, which flickers in the foggy haze of the air, metal fibers swarming around the glow. The light turns a pale green and the door rasps open. They step quickly into the shining, winding intestines of the building.

I remove my visor, unsure if I, too, have a face. Soon we all step out into the cold air of the night, steam billowing from the chimneys behind us and spilling into an empty sky. I swallow a deep breath of air, holding it in my chest until I can’t any longer. 

For a second I think I see someone. The curve of her jaw which veils behind her dark hair, the soft stature of her shoulders. She turns around and her face is gone, replaced by the empty glare of one I do not know. I scan the crowd once again before the sea of people washes me into the night. 


[[Chapter 2 -  before]] 

We were warned that the world was dying. The days were blackened by a sky shrouded in smoke, and every night the streets became darker and quieter, until there was nothing to hear, no-one to see. Each night, a new town plummeted into desperation, tearing each other apart as the supplies dwindled and the fires weakened. It was a frenzied rage that spread like a virus. Even the ones that thought they could never do such a thing; when it came to the lives of the people they loved, they realised there isn’t a single thing they wouldn’t do to save them. Families were  taken, questioned, and when they returned, they returned with less than they came with. 

The children were gone.

It only took a few months. Half the country was completely childless, and the cities were silent. A warning came to us that was soon to be our fate. We rationed our energy and warmth, much like how we rationed the food and eventually the water. We hid the children in the town churches and empty bars until the blackest part of night came. Surveyors arrived at our doors each week, the hard barrel of a rifle resting limp against their backs.They threatened to stop delivering the supplies for food, medicine and warmth, until we gave them what they wanted. They ripped our homes inside out, dragging out the furniture, books and photographs into the middle of the street.

When all of the houses had been emptied, there was a pile of belongings big enough to build a great mound of fire in the middle of the street. Families gathered from the husks of their home, and the children danced as it ate the books, lapping at the pages and cracking the spines. It spat at anyone who dared to come closer. The last birth that anyone witnessed came from the embers of identities that were destroyed, faces and memories wiped. 

After the fire died, it was replaced with a great booming voice from each corner of the sky. It followed us into our homes and into our dreams. The voice told us that there was hope; we could be the saviours of the next generation, and for our children. The world went silent except for the echoing cries of their mothers.

Families were ripped from the arms of each other. Stark white beams showered the houses from the helicopters that loomed above. The Machine was created from powerless cold hands, whilst the wealthy and powerful filled their homes with the laughter of children and the cacophony of their footsteps. 

We work towards the future, one that we will never see. We cannot distract ourselves with the act of love; I have seen what happens to those that try.  Enforced by the thousands of watchful eyes, punishable by death. No man or woman may distract themselves with the futility of caring for another person; It has been deemed simply unworthy of our time. 

It is of great importance, as these herds of people shift from the warehouse to their homes, that they remain completely alone. 

An empty playground twists and aches in the wind, taunting us as we pass. Their heads turn to the ground, watching their feet tread the cold earth. 

No one can bear to look.

[[Chapter 3 -  Burn this letter]] 

D, 


You won’t see me again. You won’t see me at the warehouse, you won’t see me working for The Machine. I can’t keep living like this. In another life we are together- we raise a family. But that can’t happen if we continue to live this way. 

I’m going to the Lysander Estate in Wiltshire- I’m sorry I didn’t tell you.  I’ve been told of a liberation group there who want to fight for the children's freedom, and, eventually, free us as well. Trying to find it has been hell, most people say it’s a suicide mission. Don’t try to find me, I’ve been planning this route for months and I’ll be damned if I come across another surveyor or living soul that deep in the country. Those sick bastards flaunt our children like they’re breathing, walking money- it’s disgusting. They get to  raise hundreds at a time, whilst we yearn for the lives we used to have. But the more they have, the more status they gain. I’ve even heard rumours of auctions. 

If you’re reading this, then you probably kicked down the door to get into the flat. Someone would have heard that and you need to leave before the Surveyors come- you know that they’ll do if they find you. 

There’s an explosive under the sink. Don’t touch it. Let it go off. The Surveyors will evacuate the whole building and then the entire block will come down. 

Don’t try to find me. Burn this letter.

-Z

[[Chapter 4 -  Signals and Impulses ]] 

 I awake in a dark and empty room. Small flecks of glass and stone shake themselves from my hair and clothes as I sit upright. The last thing I remember was glass from the block of flats showering down on the people outside, as smoke plumed from her window. I can’t shake the image from my head; The scorched walls of her bedroom, the table where we used to speak now blown into shards, the mattress caught aflame. I can’t shake the image that she was still in there.

The cell has no window and the only light that shines through is from a small gap under the door. The letter is still in my pocket, folded. I grip it hard, crushing it within my fist. 

The lie detector procedure will begin soon, a small device that enters your bloodstream and travels to your chest. You think they would want what’s in your head, to gather the signals and impulses that tell them you’re lying. But they want your heart. They want to know what you feel. 

You will go mad, knowing that they can see everything you’ve been hiding. All of your anger, your fear, your love. They won’t remove it. They will leave it to fester in your blood like a parasite, something that lives within you, forever, impossible to reach. 

Then there’s no hiding, no privacy, not even in your dreams. That’s what breaks people. When people leave, if they leave, they become paranoid, irrational, confused. It becomes impossible to follow a train of thought or to hold a conversation, a million words scattered across the brain like an invasive nest. They become faceless, voiceless, a life completely unheard and unseen. They forget their families, their children, their hopes  of being anything more than what they have become.

If the lie detector reaches into my heart, they will learn everything. They will learn of our secret meetings, hiding in the warehouse, sneaking into each other's apartments like rebellious kids. They will know that we have spoken and touched in ways that would get us killed and learn that I see her in dreams of escape and freedom in the empty, fluttering seconds before I wake. 

Suddenly, light spills into the room. The door is open, the silhouette of a Surveyor stands in the frame, a metal box in his hands. 

I am unafraid. 





















[[Chapter 5 - The Machines Eyelids]] 

We nestled in a corner of The Machine where no eyes would meet us and the harsh breathing of the engines masked our noise. It stretched and tensed, the metal limbs waking for another day; we are drowning in its metal. Silver bones and skin shone in the glistening sweat of the room, smoke and dust pouring from its mouth. We sank further into its ribs, holding each other close. To be in this moment, with another breathing life, went against everything The Machine told us. It does not know the soft touch of another's hand against its skin. Thousands of people will die unable to remember the feeling of someone else. They will forget the last time that they stared into another person's eyes until you could trace every sprawling detail in your mind. But not us. 

I don’t know if this is a memory, or from a dream of which I know they are watching. The small chip in my heart flutters as the images of this day come back to me, yet there is no fear of death. It is something I want them to see. 

Heads pressed against each other, unable to tell what was machine. Skin floating through the air like the swarming flies of sparks, The machine flutters and shakes, aging and tired. She tried to tell me that she is not gone, that they are going to get us out, all of us. I believe her. The words are dangerous and quick, washing over me. 

Then we felt the harsh glare beneath its eyelids, unmoving and watching. Suddenly, a loud, echoing noise rings through the warehouse and the footsteps, the churning, the tensing of valves and vents, all stops. The warehouse is flung into sickening motion as the anger from The Machine shakes the ground. The murmurings of the surveyors and the cocking of their guns begins as the footsteps of running join the cascade of noise flooding the room. We have nowhere to go except inside the long, stretching wires and pipes that give The Machine its life. 

We step inside. 

It is hard to breathe and even harder to concentrate as the path ahead winds and changes with every lumbered movement of its lungs and beating heart. I can see its infinite shell like never before. Oil and sweat pours from its rusted wounds. A leg gets caught in the vice of its skeleton and I cannot tell which of ours it is. As we are stuck in place a blinding blue glow shines in front of us.The world comes into view, but it is not the world we know. 

The sky is clear and the streets are filled with families, children playing in the summer heat. There is no fire and the faces that people wear are filled with content, the pillars of smoke from the chimneys are nowhere to be seen. This world does not exist, it is too good to be true. It is a world without pain, a world without The Machine. I realise that we are looking through its eyes, we see what it envisions, and it is perfect. I stop, her pleading hand pulling me forwards. I understand why people believe in The Machine and the promises it makes. I look back at her. She pulls me through, unhooking us from its fierce grasp.

We walk what feels like forever through The Machine, unsure if we will ever find an end. But then another light is shown to us, the cold brisk air from outside hits my boiling skin.

Fear nestles in the back of my chest as excitement rushes through my blood. I am hesitant to go through, but she wants me to go. 

 I hesitate, as the wires begin to creep up my legs and tighten around my ankles, sinking me further and further into the infinite network. 

All there is to do is to take one step out. Tears and sweat begin to pool into our eyes. On the other side, she tells me, there are more people that are like us, there are more people that want to put an end to this. 
If there are enough of us, she says, then maybe there is a chance we finally can. 














